The Project Gutenberg EBook of Crocheted Rugs: Star Book No. 106, by 
American Thread Company

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Crocheted Rugs: Star Book No. 106

Author: American Thread Company

Release Date: September 24, 2019 [EBook #60350]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CROCHETED RUGS: STAR BOOK NO. 106 ***




Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Lisa Corcoran and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                     STAR RUG BOOK No. 106    _25¢_




                               CROCHETED
                                  RUGS


    [Illustration: Logo]

                     _The American Thread Company_
                  260 W. BROADWAY, NEW YORK 13, N. Y.
                                                       Printed in U.S.A.




                         CROCHET ABBREVIATIONS

  ch          Chain
  s c         Single Crochet
  s d c       Short Double Crochet
  d c         Double Crochet
  tr c        Treble Crochet
  d tr c      Double Treble Crochet
  tr tr c     Treble Treble Crochet
  sl st       Slip Stitch
  st          Stitch
  sts         Stitches

* (Asterisk) Indicates that the instructions immediately following are
to be repeated the given number of times plus the original.

** Are used in the same way.




                            Home Sweet Home


                         (_illustrated on cover_)

                                 WOVEN

        _Approximate Size 19 Inches x 30 Inches Without Fringe_

              Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
               “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN, Article 235

  10 skeins Red.
  2 skeins White.
  1 skein Black or colors desired.
  Aluminum crochet hook size H.


With Red ch 72, d c in 4th st from hook, 1 d c in each remaining st of
ch, turn.

2nd Row: Ch 3 (counts as 1 d c), 1 d c in each d c (69 d c), turn.

Repeat the 2nd row 53 times, then work a row of s c all around working 3
s c in each corner, join, cut yarn.

Cut 72 strands of White and 36 strands of Black long enough to leave 4
inches on each end for fringe. Thread 2 strands of White into a very
large eyed tapestry needle, weave horizontally through 3rd row of d c’s
weaving under 1st d c and over next d c, * under next d c and over next
d c, repeat from * across row. Weave 2 more strands through same row of
d c weaving over and under same sts (4 strands woven through 1 row).
Weave 4 strands of Black through next row of d c in same manner
reversing the over and under and weaving 2 strands at a time. Weave 4
strands of White through next row of d c weaving same as previous White
row. This completes 1 stripe. * Skip 3 rows of d c, then weave a stripe
same as before. Repeat from * 7 times.

VERTICAL STRIPES: Cut 16 strands of White and 8 strands of Black long
enough to leave 4 inches on each end for fringe. Using 2 strands of yarn
only for each stripe instead of 4 strands, weave yarn under all White
sts and over all other sts weaving lengthwise, starting under the s c
row at beginning and ending under s c row at end. Weave 2 strands of
White through 2nd row of White woven sts from end. Weave 2 more strands
of White through next row of White woven sts. * Skip 5 rows of woven
White sts and weave 2 strands of Black through next row of White woven
sts. Weave 2 strands of White through next row of White woven sts. Weave
2 strands of Black through next row of White woven sts. Skip 5 rows of
White woven sts and weave 2 strands of White through each of the next 2
rows of White woven sts. Repeat from * once. Cut strands of Red 8 inches
in length. Using 1 strand, double in half and knot through each st on
each side where White or Black fringe does not occur. Tack long loops on
right side at center if desired.




                              Dot Dot Dash


                        (_illustrated on page 3_)

                               CROCHETED
                       BLACK AND WHITE WITH COLOR

              Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
               “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN, Article 235

  LARGE RUG—23 x 48 inches without fringe.
                    5 skeins Black.
                    4 skeins each Dk. Green and White.
  SMALL RUG—17 x 27 inches without fringe.
                    3 skeins Black.
                    2 skeins each Dk. Green and White.
  Aluminum crochet hook size H.


For Large Rug:

With Black, ch 92, s c in 2nd st from hook, * ch 1, skip 1 st of ch, s c
in next st, repeat from * across row to within last 2 sts of ch, ch 1,
skip 1 st, insert hook in last st, pull loop through, drop Black, pull
Green through both loops on hook, ch 1, turn.

2nd Row: S c in ch 1 space, * ch 1, s c in next ch 1 space, repeat from
* across row, ch 1, insert hook in last st, pull loop through, drop
Green, pull White through both loops on hook, ch 1, turn.

3rd Row: S c in ch 1 space, * ch 1, s c in next ch 1 space, repeat from
* across row, ch 1, insert hook in last st, pull loop through, drop
White, pull Black through both loops on hook, ch 1, turn.

4th Row: S c in ch 1 space, * ch 1, s c in next ch 1 space, repeat from
* across row, ch 1, insert hook in last st, pull loop through, drop
Black, pull Green through both loops on hook, ch 1, turn. Repeat 2nd,
3rd and 4th rows, until rug measures 40 inches, ending with the Black
row, cut yarn.

FRINGE: Wind Black over a 7 inch cardboard, cut one end. Using 2
strands, double in half and loop through every other st across each
short end.

Next Row: * Take 2 strands of 1 group of fringe and 2 strands of next
group of fringe, knot together ½ inch from preceding row of knots,
repeat from * across row. Repeat last row once.

SMALL RUG: With Black, ch 67 and work in same manner as large rug until
work measures 27 inches ending with the Black row.

    [Illustration: fringe]

    [Illustration: Dot Dot Dash]




                              Young Modern


    [Illustration: Modernistic architecture and furnishings]

                             WAFFLE STITCH

                 _24 Inches x 40 Inches Without Fringe_

              Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
               “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN, Article 235

  14 skeins Evergreen.
  2 skeins Orange.
  1 skein Lt. Yellow.
  1 skein White.
  Aluminum crochet hook size H.


With Evergreen, ch 84, d c in 4th st from hook, 1 d c in each remaining
st of ch, ch 3, turn.

2nd Row: D c in next d c, * yarn over, insert hook from front to back
and to front again around next d c, pull loop through, yarn over and
complete the d c (front d c), front d c around next d c, 1 d c in each
of the next 2 d c, repeat from * across row, ending with d c in 3rd st
of ch 3, drop Evergreen, do not turn.

3rd Row: * * Attach Orange in 3rd st of ch 3, s c in same space and 1 s
c in each st, cut yarn, turn.

4th Row: Pick up Evergreen, ch 3, front d c around next d c of 2nd row
below, * skip 2 s c, 1 d c in each of the next 2 s c, 1 front d c in
each of the next 2 d c of 2nd row below, repeat from * across row,
ending with last d c around end ch, ch 3, turn.

5th Row: Same as 2nd row.

Repeat the last 3 rows for pattern, working 1 row Orange, 2 rows
Evergreen, * 1 row Lt. Yellow, 2 rows Evergreen, repeat from * once, * 1
row Orange, two rows Evergreen, repeat from * once, * 1 row White, two
rows Evergreen, repeat from * once. Repeat from * * 3 times. Continue in
pattern working * 1 row Orange, 2 rows Evergreen, repeat from * once, *
1 row Lt. Yellow, 2 rows Evergreen, repeat from * once, * 1 row Orange,
2 rows Evergreen, repeat from * once, ch 2, turn last row.

Next Row: Insert hook from front to back and to front again around next
d c, pull loop through, yarn over and complete the s c (front s c), * 1
s c in each of the next 2 d c, 1 front s c around each of the next 2 d
c, repeat from * across row, cut yarn.

FRINGE: Wind Evergreen over a 1½ inch cardboard, cut one end. Using one
strand, double in half and knot through each st across two short sides.

    [Illustration: Young Modern]




                               _Biarritz_


                           EMBROIDERED BLOCKS

                _Approximate Size 22 Inches × 33 Inches_

              Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
               “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN, Article 235

  9 skeins Lt. Brown.
  4 skeins White or color desired.
  Aluminum crochet hook size H.


With Brown ch 72, s c in 2nd st from hook, 1 s c in each remaining st of
ch, ch 1, turn. Work firmly throughout.

2nd Row: 1 s c in each s c (71 s c), ch 1, turn.

3rd Row: S c in 1st s c, long s c in base of next s c, * s c in top of
next s c, long s c in base of next s c, repeat from * across row, ending
with s c in top of last s c, ch 1, turn.

4th Row: Long s c in 1st s c, * s c in top of next long s c, long s c in
base of next s c, repeat from * across row, ch 1, turn. The last 2 rows
form the pattern. Repeat the last 2 rows 3 times.

Measure about 16 yds. of White for each of the 3 White blocks and roll
each 16 yds. into a ball holding in position with a safety pin so it
does not tangle. Measure about 16 yds. of Brown for each Brown stripe
and roll into ball in same manner, continue working with original skeins
for border stripe.

11th Row: S c in top of 1st long s c, long s c in base of next s c, * s
c in top of next long s c, long s c in base of next s c, repeat from *
once, s c in top of next long s c, insert hook in base of next s c, pull
loop through, with White, yarn over and pull through both loops on hook,
drop Brown to back of work (when changing color always complete last
half of last st with next color in same manner as just given), with
White 1 s c in each of the next 13 sts working in top of sts only, drop
White to back of work, using a separate ball of Brown work * long s c in
base of next s c, s c in top of next s c, repeat from * 3 times, drop
Brown to back of work, with White and using a separate ball work 1 s c
in top of each of the next 13 sts, drop White to back of work, using a
separate ball of Brown work * s c in top of next long s c, long s c in
base of next s c, repeat from * 3 times, drop Brown to back of work,
with White and using a separate ball of yarn, work 1 s c in top of each
of the next 13 sts, drop White to back of work, with Brown and using a
separate ball of yarn, * long s c in base of next s c, s c in top of
next s c, repeat from * 3 times (right side of work), ch 1, turn.

12th Row: * Keeping pattern uniform with Brown work in pattern across
next 8 sts, drop Brown to front of work (wrong side), pick up White and
work 1 s c in top of each of the next 13 s c, drop White to front of
work, repeat from * twice, pick up Brown and work in pattern across last
8 sts, ch 1 to turn each row.

13th Row: * Keeping pattern uniform with Brown work in pattern across
next 8 sts, drop Brown to back of work, pick up White, 1 s c in top of
each of the next 13 s c, drop White to back of work, repeat from *
twice, with Brown work in pattern across last 8 sts.

Repeat the last 2 rows 6 times, then repeat the 12th row once.

27th Row: With Brown work in pattern across 1st 8 sts, * cut White yarn
in previous row leaving an end to work in securely, 1 s c in each of the
next 13 s c, cut Brown yarn of previous row leaving an end to work in
securely, work in pattern across next 8 sts, repeat from * twice.

28th Row: With Brown work in pattern across 1st 8 sts, * 1 s c in top of
each of the next 13 s c, pattern over next 8 sts, repeat from * twice.

Repeat from 3rd row through 28th row 4 times. Work 9 rows in pattern.

Next Row: 1 s c in each st, cut yarn.

With Brown embroider design in cross sts in center of each White block
working according to chart and starting the 1st 2 cross sts in the 6th
and 7th st of 6th row of each White block.

    [Illustration: Pattern]

    [Illustration: Biarritz]




                             The New Granny


    [Illustration: Active Granny]

                         CROCHETED GRANNY BLOCK

                        _24 Inches x 36 Inches_

              Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
               “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN, Article 235

  3 skeins each Lt. Yellow and Brown.
  2 skeins Dk. Red.
  6 skeins Gray or colors desired.
  Aluminum crochet hook size H.

                Each motif measures 6 inches x 6 inches.

                 24 motifs 4 x 6 are required for rug.


MOTIF: With Lt. Yellow ch 4, join to form a ring, ch 3 and work 2 d c in
ring, * ch 1, 3 d c in ring, repeat from * twice, ch 1, join in 3rd st
of ch, cut yarn.

2nd Row: Attach Dk. Red in ch 1 loop, ch 3, 2 d c in same loop, ch 1, 3
d c in same loop, * 3 d c, ch 1, 3 d c (shell) in next loop, repeat from
* twice, join in 3rd st of ch, cut yarn.

3rd Row: Attach Gray in corner loop, ch 3, 2 d c in same loop, ch 1, 3 d
c in same loop, * skip 3 d c of same shell, 3 d c in next space, shell
in next corner loop, repeat from * twice, skip 3 d c of same shell, 3 d
c in next space, join in 3rd st of ch, cut yarn.

4th Row: Attach Brown in corner loop, ch 3, 2 d c in same loop, ch 1, 3
d c in same loop, * skip 3 d c of same shell, 3 d c in next space, skip
3 d c, 3 d c in next space, shell in next corner loop, repeat from *
twice, skip 3 d c of same shell, 3 d c in next space, skip 3 d c, 3 d c
in next space, join in 3rd st of ch, cut yarn.

5th Row: With Lt. Yellow, work 1 s c in each st and 2 s c, ch 2, 2 s c
in each corner loop.

6th Row: With Gray, work same as 5th row. Sew motifs together as
illustrated.

BORDER: With Gray, work a row of s c all around, working 1 s c in each s
c and 3 s c in each corner loop, join. Work 1 more row in same manner,
working 3 s c in center st of each corner, join, cut yarn.

    [Illustration: The New Granny]




                               Provincial


    [Illustration: Rural artifacts]

                                 WOVEN

              _Rug Measures Approx. 30 Inches x 48 Inches_

              Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
               “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN, Article 235

  8 skeins Dk. Green.
  5 skeins Rust.
  8 skeins Lt. Yellow or colors desired.
  Aluminum crochet hook size G.


With Green ch 113, d c in 7th st from hook, * ch 1, skip 1 st of ch, d c
in next st, repeat from * across ch, ch 4 to turn all rows.

2nd Row: D c in next d c, * ch 1, d c in next d c, repeat from * across
row ending with ch 1, skip 1 st, d c in next st (when changing color,
always complete last half of st with next color), cut Green.

3rd Row: Attach Rust and work same as 2nd row. Continue working in same
manner, work 1 row Yellow, 1 row Green, 1 row Yellow, 1 row Green, 1 row
Rust, 1 row Yellow, 1 row Green, 1 row Yellow, 1 row Rust, 1 row Green,
2 rows Yellow, 1 row Green, 1 row Rust, 1 row Yellow, 1 row Green, 1 row
Yellow, 1 row Rust, 1 row Green, 1 row Yellow, 1 row Green, 1 row
Yellow, 1 row Rust, 1 row Green, 2 rows Yellow, 1 row Green, 1 row Rust,
1 row Yellow, 1 row Green, 1 row Yellow, 1 row Green, 1 row Rust, 1 row
Yellow, 1 row Green, 1 row Yellow, 1 row Rust, 1 row Green, 2 rows
Yellow (center of rug), then starting with the Green row, work backwards
to the 1st row, cut yarn.

The pattern is darned in using 3 strands of yarn through each mesh
lengthwise, working over 1 mesh and under next mesh allowing 10 inches
of yarn at each end for fringe. Reverse the over and under of every
other row of meshes. Starting at end weave 1st 2 rows Green, 1 row Rust,
1 row Yellow, 1 row Green, 1 row Yellow, 1 row Rust, 2 rows Yellow, 1
row Green, 1 row Yellow, 1 row Rust, 1 row Green, 2 rows Yellow, 1 row
Green, 1 row Rust, 1 row Yellow, 1 row Green, 1 row Yellow, 1 row Green,
1 row Rust, 1 row Yellow, 1 row Green, 1 row Yellow, 1 row Rust, 2 rows
Yellow (center). Then starting with 1 row Rust working backward work
back to the 1st row.

FRINGE: Knot 1st 2 strands together, * knot next 3 strands together,
repeat from * across row knotting last 4 strands together. Work opposite
side in same manner. Trim evenly.

    [Illustration: Provincial]




                            Happy the Clown


    [Illustration: Carnival and clown]

                              EMBROIDERED

                 _20 Inches x 30 Inches Without Fringe_

              Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
               “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN, Article 235

  9 skeins Med. Blue.
  1 skein each Black, Red and Lt. Yellow.
  Aluminum crochet hook size H.


With Blue ch 61, s c in 2nd st from hook, 1 s c in each remaining st of
ch, ch 1, turn.

2nd Row: 1 s c in each s c, ch 1, turn.

Repeat 2nd row 94 times, cut yarn.

FRINGE: Wind yarn over a 7 inch cardboard, cut one end. Using 2 strands,
double in half and loop through every other st across short sides and
every other row across long sides.

Next Row: * Take 2 strands of one group of fringe and 2 strands of next
group of fringe, knot together ½ inch from preceding row of knots,
repeat from * all around.

Repeat last row once.

Embroider rug in cross sts according to chart.

If desired pompons can be used instead of cross sts for buttons and
shoes.

POMPONS: Wind Red over a 1¾ inch cardboard 25 times, tie one end, remove
from cardboard and cut opposite end. Work 2 more Red and 3 Yellow
pompons in same manner. Sew Red pompons on front of suit as illustrated
for buttons. Sew a Yellow pompon on each shoe and one at tip of feather
on hat.

    [Illustration: Pattern]

    [Illustration: Happy the Clown]




                              Country Home


    [Illustration: Falling leaves]

                               CROCHETED

                _25½ Inches in Diameter Without Fringe_

              Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
               “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN, Article 235

  2 skeins each Black and Chartreuse.
  1 skein each Dk. Green, Turquoise, Lt. Yellow, Cerise, Red and
              National Blue.
  Aluminum crochet hook size G or H.


With Dk. Green ch 10, join to form a ring, ch 3 and work 23 d c in ring,
join in 3rd st of ch.

2nd Round: Ch 3, d c in same space, 1 d c in each of the next 2 d c, 2 d
c in next d c, * ch 2, 2 d c in next d c, 1 d c in each of the next 2 d
c, 2 d c in next d c, repeat from * 4 times, ch 2, join in 3rd st of ch
(6 d c sections), cut yarn.

3rd Round: Attach Black in same space, ch 3, d c in same space, 1 d c in
each of the next 4 d c, 2 d c in next d c, * ch 2, 2 d c in next d c, 1
d c in each of the next 4 d c, 2 d c in next d c, repeat from * all
around, ch 2, join in 3rd st of ch, cut Black. Repeat the 3rd round for
entire rug having 2 more d c in each d c section in each round, working
next 2 rounds Cerise, 1 round Black, 2 rounds Turquoise, 1 round Lt.
Yellow, 1 round Black, 1 round Chartreuse, 1 round Red, 1 round Lt.
Yellow, * 1 round National Blue, 1 round Black, repeat from * once, 1
round Chartreuse, cut yarn.

FRINGE: Wind Chartreuse over a 4 inch cardboard. Cut one end. Using 1
strand for each fringe double in half and knot through each st all
around.

    [Illustration: Country Home]




                             Cliff Dweller


    [Illustration: Skyscrapers]

                               CROCHETED

              Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
               “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN, Article 235

  LARGE RUG—26 x 50 inches without fringe.
                    8 skeins Gray.
                    8 skeins Red or Dk. Red.
                    4 skeins Cream.
  SMALL RUG—16 x 26 inches without fringe.
                    4 skeins Gray.
                    3 skeins Red or Dk. Red.
                    2 skeins Cream.
  Aluminum crochet hook size H.


SMALL RUG: With Gray ch 72, insert hook in 4th st from hook, pull loop
through, yarn over, insert hook in same space, pull loop through, yarn
over and work off all loops at one time, * skip 1 st of ch, insert hook
in next st, pull loop through, yarn over, insert hook in same space,
pull loop through, yarn over and work off all loops at one time, repeat
from * across ch, cut yarn (35 patterns). Attach Cream (when changing
color always complete last half of last st made with next color), turn.

2nd Row: Ch 2, insert hook in same space, pull loop through, yarn over,
insert hook in same space, pull loop through, yarn over and work off all
loops at one time, * insert hook in next st (inserting hook through
loose part of st also), pull loop through, yarn over, insert hook in
same space, pull loop through, yarn over and work off all loops at one
time (pattern), repeat from * across row, cut yarn, turn.

3rd Row: With Gray, ch 2 (always start every row with ch 2), work 1
pattern st in each of the next 4 sts, drop Gray, with Dk. Red, working
over Gray, work in pattern across the next 7 sts, drop Dk. Red, pick up
Gray and work in pattern across remainder of row. Continue working back
and forth according to chart.

FRINGE: Wind Gray over a 3½ inch cardboard. Cut one end. Double 2
lengths in half, loop through 1st st also inserting yarn through loose
part of st, draw ends through loop tightly. Repeat in each st across
each short end.

LARGE RUG: With Gray, ch 110 and work in same manner as small rug,
working according to chart. Finish rug in same manner.

    [Illustration: Large pattern]

    [Illustration: Small pattern]

    [Illustration: Cliff Dweller]




                           Regimental Stripes


    [Illustration: Toy soldiers]

                               CROCHETED

                 _24 Inches x 40 Inches Without Fringe_

              Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
               “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN, Article 235

  8 skeins National Blue.
  3 skeins Black.
  2 skeins each Lt. Yellow and Dk. Green.
  1 skein Red.
  Aluminum crochet hook size H.


With National Blue ch 96, yarn over hook, insert in 4th st from hook and
pull loop through, yarn over hook, skip 1 st of ch, insert hook in next
st, pull loop through, yarn over and work off all loops at one time, ch
1 (the ch 1 is termed the eye of st), * yarn over hook, insert in same
space with last st, pull loop through, yarn over hook, skip 1 st of ch,
insert hook in next st, pull loop through, yarn over and work off all 5
loops at one time, ch 1 (pattern), repeat from * across row then ch 1
more to turn.

2nd Row: Yarn over hook, skip the eye of st just made, insert hook in
next st of same pattern, pull loop through, yarn over hook, insert in
eye of next st, pull loop through, yarn over and work off all 5 loops at
one time, ch 1, * yarn over hook, insert in eye of same st, pull loop
through, yarn over hook, insert in eye of next st, pull loop through,
yarn over and work off all 5 loops at one time, ch 1, repeat from *
across row inserting hook in 2nd st of end ch to complete last pattern,
ch 1, then ch 1 more to turn. All rows are worked same as 2nd row for
entire rug. Work 4 more rows National Blue but work to within last
pattern of last row, yarn over, insert in eye of same st, pull loop
through, yarn over, insert in 2nd st of end ch, pull loop through, with
Black pull through all 5 loops on hook at one time, ch 1, then ch 1 more
to turn.

Work 1 row of pattern in Black. When changing color always complete last
pattern in next color. Then work 2 rows Lt. Yellow, 1 row Black, 2 rows
Dk. Green, 1 row Black, 2 rows Red, 1 row Black, 8 rows National Blue, 1
row Black, 2 rows Lt. Yellow, 1 row Black, 4 rows National Blue, 1 row
Black, 2 rows Green, 1 row Black, 4 rows National Blue, 1 row Black, 2
rows Red, 1 row Black, 4 rows National Blue, 1 row Black, 2 rows Green,
1 row Black, 4 rows National Blue, 1 row Black, 2 rows Lt. Yellow, 1 row
Black, 8 rows National Blue, 1 row Black, 2 rows Red, 1 row Black, 2
rows Green, 1 row Black, 2 rows Lt. Yellow, 1 row Black, 6 rows National
Blue, cut yarn.

FRINGE: Wind National Blue over a 4½ inch cardboard, cut one end. Using
2 strands, double in half and knot through every other st across each
short end.

    [Illustration: Regimental Stripes]




                            Round and Round


    [Illustration: Spinning tops]

                       CROCHETED—LOOP STITCH OVAL

                        _25 Inches x 37 Inches_

              Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
               “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN, Article 235

  6 skeins Dk. Green.
  5 skeins Leaf Green.
  4 skeins Evergreen.
  2 skeins White.
  Aluminum crochet hook size H.


With Dk. Green ch 31, 2 loop sts in 2nd st from hook (loop st: wind yarn
over index finger, insert hook in st, draw yarn through pulling yarn
from under index finger, drop loop from finger letting loop fall to
right side of work and complete s c), 1 loop st in each of the next 28
sts of ch, 3 loop sts in end st, working on opposite side of ch, work 1
loop st in each of the 28 sts, 1 loop st in same space with 1st 2 loop
sts, join, ch 1, turn.

2nd Round: 2 s c in each of the 3 loop sts at each end and 1 s c in each
of the 28 loop sts on each side, join, ch 1, turn.

3rd Round: Skip the sl st and work 2 loop sts in each of the next 2 s c,
1 loop st in each of the next 28 s c, 2 loop sts in each of the next 6 s
c, 1 loop st in each of the next 28 s c, 2 loop sts in each of the last
4 s c, join, ch 1, turn.

4th Round: 1 s c in each loop st, join (80 s c), ch 1, turn.

5th Round: 1 loop st in each of the 34 s c on each side and 2 loop sts
in each of the 6 sts at each end, join, cut yarn, turn.

6th Round: Place a marker between the 2 center sts at end, attach Leaf
Green in 8th st to right of center, s c in same space, 2 s c in next st,
* 1 s c in next st, 2 s c in next st, repeat from * 6 times, 1 s c in
each of the next 30 sts, 2 s c in next st, * 1 s c in next st, 2 s c in
next st, repeat from * 6 times, 1 s c in each remaining st, join, ch 1,
turn.

7th Round: 1 loop st in each s c, join each round and turn each round.

8th Round: 1 s c in each st.

9th Round: 1 loop st in each st on sides increasing 6 loop sts evenly
spaced at each end (120 loop sts), cut yarn.

10th Round: Attach Evergreen and work 1 s c in each loop st on sides
increasing in every other loop st of the 24 loop sts at each end (144 s
c).

11th Round: * With Evergreen, 1 loop st in each of the next 8 s c, with
White 1 loop st in each of the next 8 s c (when changing color always
complete last half of last st with next color and always carry yarn not
being used in front of work), repeat from * all around, drop White.

12th Round: With Evergreen 1 s c in each loop st.

13th Round: Carry White in front of work and with Evergreen work 1 loop
st in each of the next 4 s c, * with White 1 loop st in each of the next
8 s c, with Evergreen 1 loop st in each of the next 8 s c, repeat from *
7 times, with White 1 loop st in each of the next 8 s c, with Evergreen
1 loop st in each of the next 4 s c, drop White.

14th Round: Same as 12th round.

15th Round: * With White, and working same as 11th round, work 1 loop st
in each of the next 8 s c, with Evergreen 1 loop st in each of the next
8 s c, repeat from * all around, cut White.

16th Round: With Evergreen, work 1 s c in each loop st on sides
increasing in every 3rd st of the 24 sts at each end (8 sts increased at
each end), cut yarn.

17th Round: Attach Leaf Green and work 1 loop st in each s c on sides
increasing 10 loop sts evenly spaced at each end.

18th Round: 1 s c in each loop st.

19th Round: 1 loop st in each s c.

20th Round: 1 s c in each loop st on sides increasing 1 s c in every 4th
st 12 times around each end (24 sts increased in round), cut yarn.

21st Round: Attach Dk. Green and work same as 19th round.

22nd Round: 1 s c in each loop st. Repeat the last 2 rounds twice, cut
yarn.

27th Round: Attach Leaf Green and work same as 17th round.

28th Round: 1 s c in each loop st.

29th Round: 1 loop st in each s c on sides increasing 1 loop st in every
5th st 12 times around each end (24 sts increased in round), cut yarn.

30th Round: Attach Evergreen and work 1 s c in each s c on sides
increasing 1 s c in every 6th st 12 times around each end (272 sts).

Repeat the 11th, 12th, 13th, 14th and 15th rounds.

36th Round: With Evergreen, work 1 s c in each loop st, cut yarn.

37th Round: With Leaf Green, work 1 loop st in each s c.

38th Round: 1 s c in each s c on sides increasing in every 6th st of the
90 sts around each end.

39th Round: Same as 19th round, cut yarn.

40th Round: Attach Dk. Green in any st on side and work 1 s c in each st
on sides increasing every 10th st of the 90 sts around each end.

41st Round: 1 loop st in each s c.

42nd Round: 1 s c in each loop st. Repeat the last 2 rounds once, then
repeat the 41st round once.

Next Round: 1 sl st in each loop st, join, cut yarn.

    [Illustration: Round and Round]




                             Day and Night


                               CROCHETED

                        _24 Inches x 40 Inches_

              Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
               “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN, Article 235

  7 skeins each Black and White or colors desired.
  Aluminum crochet hook size H.


With Black, ch 82, s c in 2nd st from hook, ch 2, 2 d c in same space, *
skip 3 sts of ch, s c in next st, ch 2, 2 d c in same space (shell),
repeat from * across ch ending with s c in last st of ch (20 shells),
cut yarn, turn.

2nd Row: Attach White in 1st s c, ch 3, 2 d c in same space, * s c in
next s c, ch 2, 2 d c in same space (shell), repeat from * across row
ending with s c in last st of ch 3, cut yarn, turn.

3rd Row: Attach Black in 1st s c and work same as 2nd row. Repeat 2nd
and 3rd rows until rug measures 40 inches, cut yarn.

    [Illustration: Day and Night]




                                Pinwheel


    [Illustration: Pinwheels]

                               CROCHETED

       _Rug Measures About 24 Inches in Diameter Without Fringe_

              Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
               “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN, Article 235

  5 skeins Black.
  1 skein each Lt. Yellow, Red, Dk. Green and National Blue or colors
              desired.
  Aluminum crochet hook size H.


With Black ch 4, join to form a ring, ch 3, 7 d c in ring, join in 3rd
st of ch.

2nd Round: Ch 5, s d c in next d c, (s d c: yarn over hook, insert in
st, pull loop through, yarn over and pull through all loops at one
time), * ch 3, s d c in next d c, repeat from * 5 times, ch 3.

3rd Round: S c in 2nd st of ch 5, 2 s c in next loop, * ch 2, s c in
next s d c, 2 s c in next loop, repeat from * 6 times, do not join
rounds.

4th Round: * Ch 2, skip 1 s c, 1 s c in each of the next 2 s c, 2 s c in
next loop, repeat from * 7 times.

5th Round: * Ch 2, skip 1 s c, 1 s c in each of the next 3 s c, 2 s c in
next loop, repeat from * 7 times.

6th Round: * Ch 2, skip 1 s c, 1 s c in each of the next 4 s c, 2 s c in
next loop, repeat from * 7 times.

7th Round: * Ch 2, skip 1 s c, 1 s c in each s c, 2 s c in next loop,
repeat from * 7 times. Repeat the last round always having 1 more s c in
each s c section until there are 15 s c in each section.

16th Round: Ch 2, skip 1 s c, 1 s c in each of the next 6 s c, decrease
in next 2 sts (to decrease: * insert hook in next st, pull loop through,
repeat from * once, yarn over and work off all loops at one time), 1 s c
in each of the next 6 s c, 2 s c in next loop, repeat from beginning all
around.

17th and 18th Rounds: * Ch 2, skip 1 s c, 1 s c in each s c, 2 s c in
next loop, repeat from * all around. Repeat the last 3 rounds 4 times
always decreasing in center of each s c section every 3rd round.

31st and 32nd Rounds: Same as 17th and 18th rounds. Work 4 more rounds
in same manner working 1 round Red, 1 round Dk. Green, 1 round Lt.
Yellow, 1 round National Blue (when changing color always complete last
half of last stitch with next color then work the ch 2 in new color).
Cut 4 strands each of Dk. Green, Lt. Yellow, Red and National Blue about
54 inches long. * Using 2 strands Blue, lace through 1 swirl of the ch 2
loops leaving about 5 inches free at outer edge. Lace over one round and
under next round to center of rug, insert needle in center of rug and
lace back to outside edge reversing the over and unders. Tie the 2 ends
together for fringe. With Dk. Green lace through next swirl of ch 2
loops lacing in same manner. Repeat in each swirl of ch 2 loops working
next swirl in Red, next in Yellow, repeat from * once.

FRINGE: Wind all colors over a 4¼ inch cardboard. Cut one end. Using 2
strands of same color, knot through every other st around entire rug
skipping the fringe at end of each swirl.

    [Illustration: Pinwheel]




                              Contemporary


    [Illustration: Abstract figures]

                         CROCHETED-LOOP STITCH

                        _30 Inches x 50 Inches_

              Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
               “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN, Article 235

  29 skeins Gray or color desired.
  Aluminum crochet hook size G.

                 15 squares 3 x 5 are required for rug.


1ST SQUARE: Ch 34, 1 s c in 2nd st from hook, 1 s c in each remaining st
of ch (33 s c), ch 1, turn.

2nd Row: 1 double loop st in each s c (double loop st: wind yarn over
index finger twice, insert hook in st, draw yarn through pulling yarn
from under index finger, drop loops from finger letting loops fall to
right side of work and complete s c), ch 1, turn.

3rd Row: 1 s c in each st, ch 1, turn. Repeat the last 2 rows twice.

8th Row: 1 double loop st in each s c, ch 1, turn.

9th Row: 1 s c in each st, ch 1, turn.

10th Row: 1 double loop st in each of the 1st 8 s c, 1 s c in each of
the next 17 s c, 1 double loop st in each of the next 8 s c, ch 1, turn.
Repeat the last 2 rows once.

13th Row: 1 s c in each st, ch 1, turn.

14th Row: 1 double loop st in each of the 1st 8 s c, 1 s c in each of
the next 5 s c, 1 double loop st in each of the next 7 s c, 1 s c in
each of the next 5 s c, 1 double loop st in each of the next 8 s c, ch
1, turn. Repeat the last 2 rows 3 times.

21st Row: 1 s c in each st, ch 1, turn.

22nd Row: Same as 10th row. Repeat the last 2 rows once.

25th Row: 1 s c in each st, ch 1, turn.

26th Row: 1 double loop st in each s c, ch 1, turn. Repeat the last 2
rows 3 times, ch 1, turn.

33rd Row: 1 s c in each st, cut yarn. Work 7 more squares in same
manner.

2ND SQUARE: Ch 34, 1 s c in 2nd st from hook, 1 s c in each remaining st
of ch, ch 1, turn.

2nd Row: 1 s c in each s c, ch 1, turn. Repeat last row 6 times.

9th Row: 1 s c in each of the 1st 8 s c, 1 double loop st in each of the
next 17 s c, 1 s c in each of the next 8 s c, ch 1, turn.

10th Row: 1 s c in each st, ch 1, turn. Repeat last 2 rows once.

13th Row: Same as 9th row.

14th Row: 1 s c in each s c, ch 1, turn.

15th Row: 1 s c in each of the 1st 8 s c, 1 double loop st in each of
the next 5 sts, 1 s c in each of the next 7 s c, 1 double loop st in
each of the next 5 s c, 1 s c in each of the next 8 s c, ch 1, turn.
Repeat the last 2 rows twice.

20th Row: 1 s c in each st, ch 1, turn.

21st Row: 1 s c in each of the first 8 sts, 1 double loop st in each of
the next 17 sts, 1 s c in each of the next 8 sts, ch 1, turn. Repeat the
last 2 rows twice.

Next 8 Rows: 1 s c in each st, ch 1 to turn each row, cut yarn. Work 6
more squares in same manner.

Sew squares together as illustrated.

Work 2 rows of s c around entire rug working 3 s c in each corner in
each row.

    [Illustration: Contemporary]




                         _Have you ever tried_


to make Punch-needle or Hooked Rugs? They are so simple.

The lovely Aunt Lydia designs on the opposite page are for sale at your
nearest Art Needlework counter—each attractively packaged—each
containing step-by-step easy instructions. 79¢ each.

Make these rugs with smooth, smooth Aunt Lydia’s Heavy Rug Yarn in
lovely jeweltone colors. What room wouldn’t be improved with one or more
of these easy-to-make, fascinating rugs?

    [Illustration: PUNCH NEEDLE RUG—By this method, the yarn is threaded
    in a special hooking needle. The needle is then punched through the
    rug foundation from the wrong side in accordance with the color
    pattern indicated by the stamped design.]

    [Illustration: HOOKED RUG—With another method of hooking, the yarn
    is held underneath the frame with one hand and pulled up to the
    desired height (usually about ½ inch) with a hook held in the other
    hand.]


                              Aunt Lydia’s
                 Punch Needle or Hooked Rug Foundations

    [Illustration: No. 650 ... Poppy]

    [Illustration: No. 651 ... Old-Fashioned Floral]

    [Illustration: No. 652 ... Colonial]

    [Illustration: No. 653 ... Colonial Rose]

    [Illustration: No. 654 ... Colonial Scroll]

    [Illustration: No. 655 ... Colonial Floral]

    [Illustration: No. 656 ... Morning Glory]

    [Illustration: No. 657 ... Clematis]

    [Illustration: No. 658 ... Carnation]




                            Santa Fé Modern


                               CROCHETED

          _Rug Measures 24 Inches x 29 Inches Without Fringe_

              Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
               “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN, Article 235

  6 skeins Dk. Green.
  4 skeins Lt. Yellow.
  3 skeins Brown.
  Aluminum crochet hook size H.


Rug is worked firmly throughout.

With Green ch 22, 3 s c in 2nd st from hook, 1 s c in each of the next
19 sts of ch, 3 s c in next st, working on other side of ch, work 1 s c
in each of the next 19 sts, do not join this or the following rows.
Place a marker at beginning of each row.

2nd Row: 1 s c, 1 s d c, 1 s c in next s c (s d c: yarn over hook,
insert in st, pull through, yarn over and pull through all loops at one
time), s c in next s c, 1 s c, 1 s d c, 1 s c in next s c, 1 s c in each
of the next 19 s c, 1 s c, 1 s d c, 1 s c in next s c, 1 s c in next s
c, 1 s c, 1 s d c, 1 s c in next s c, 1 s c in each of the next 19 s c.

3rd Row: S c in next s c, 1 s c, 1 s d c, 1 s c in next s c, 1 s c in
each of the next 3 s c, 1 s c, 1 s d c, 1 s c in next s c, 1 s c in each
of the next 21 s c, 1 s c, 1 s d c, 1 s c in next s c, 1 s c in each of
the next 3 s c, 1 s c, 1 s d c, 1 s c in next s c, 1 s c in each of the
next 20 s c.

Next 9 Rows: Work 1 s c in each s c and 1 s c, 1 s d c, 1 s c in center
st at each corner in each row, sl st in next st to even row pulling st
tightly.

13th Row: Attach Lt. Yellow in center st at any corner and work 1 s c, 1
s d c, 1 s c in same space, 1 s c in each s c all around working 1 s c,
1 s d c, 1 s c in center st at each remaining corner, join in 1st s c.

14th Row: Sl st in next st (corner st), ch 1, 1 s c, 1 s d c, 1 s c in
same space, then work 1 s c in each s c, working 1 s c, 1 s d c, 1 s c
in center st at each corner, join, cut Yellow.

15th, 16th and 17th Rows: Same as 13th row working 1 row Dk. Green, 1
row Brown, 1 row Dk. Green, cut yarn.

18th and 19th Rows: Attach Lt. Yellow and work same as 13th and 14th
rows.

Next 3 Rows: Attach Brown and work even in s c working 1 s c, 1 s d c, 1
s c in center st at each corner in each row, cut yarn. This should
measure 12½ × 18¼ inches. Block carefully before starting next row.

23rd Row: Working across short side, attach Yellow in center st at
corner and work 1 s c, 1 s d c, 1 s c in same space, ** keeping the
loops of last s c on hook, with Brown, yarn over and pull through both
loops on hook (always carry color not used underneath and when changing
color always complete last half of st with next color), skip 1 s c, *
with Brown and working over Yellow, s c in next s c always working in
center of s c of previous row by inserting hook between the 2 upright
bars of st, with Yellow and working over Brown 1 s c in each of the next
9 s c (always insert hook in center of each st), repeat from * 3 times,
with Brown s c in next s c, skip 1 s c, with Yellow 1 s c, 1 s d c, 1 s
c in next st (corner), * with Brown s c in next s c, with Yellow 1 s c
in each of the next 9 s c, repeat from * 5 times, with Brown s c in next
s c, with Yellow 1 s c, 1 s d c, 1 s c in next st, repeat from ** once
but omitting the 1 s c, 1 s d c, 1 s c in corner st, join in 1st s c.

24th Row: Sl st into corner and with Yellow work 1 s c, 1 s d c, 1 s c
in same space, * with Brown 1 s c in each of the next 3 s c, with Yellow
1 s c in each of the next 7 s c, repeat from * all around always working
1 s c, 1 s d c, 1 s c in center st at corner in Yellow, join each row.

Next 3 Rows: Same as last row but having 1 more st on each side of each
Brown triangle and 1 st less on each side of each Yellow point in each
row, cut Yellow.

28th Row: Working in same manner with Brown 1 s c in each s c working 1
s c, 1 s d c, 1 s c in each corner, cut Brown.

29th and 30th Rows: Attach Lt. Yellow in corner st and work same as 13th
and 14th rows working through top of sts for remainder of rug.

Repeat the 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th and 19th rows, cut yarn.

36th Row: Attach Green in center st at corner and work 1 s c, 1 s d c, 1
s c in same space, 1 s c in each s c all around working 1 s c, 1 s d c,
1 s c in center st at each corner, join.

Next 6 Rows: 1 s c in each s c working 1 s c, 1 s d c, 1 s c in center
st at each corner, join, cut yarn.

FRINGE: Wind all colors over a 4 inch cardboard. Cut one end. Using 1
strand for each fringe, double in half and knot through each st all
around having 1 strand Dk. Green through each of the 1st 2 sts, 1 strand
Brown through each of the next 2 sts, 1 strand Lt. Yellow through each
of the next 2 sts, repeat in same manner all around.

    [Illustration: Santa Fé Modern]

    [Illustration: AUNT LYDIA’S HEAVY RUG YARN]


                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Relocated material “continued on remote page” for more
  conveniently-flowing text.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Crocheted Rugs: Star Book No. 106, by 
American Thread Company

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CROCHETED RUGS: STAR BOOK NO. 106 ***

***** This file should be named 60350-0.txt or 60350-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/3/5/60350/

Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Lisa Corcoran and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

